Okay, enough concepts, definitions, and theory.
It's time to walk through a couple of demos using the Jackson API
that we've been using so far in this course.
The first demo that you'll see walks through the basic
API usage of the DOM or tree-style API.
We're going to take the same bank loan document that we saw earlier,
we're going to parse it into JSON,
and we're going to inspect the object graph that we get
returned to us and pretty print it back out.
Then we'll see what happens if we feed an invalid JSON document into the system.
And finally, we'll write a generic validator for JSON documents.
Oaky,
so let's start this demo the exact same way we started
the previous section on emitting JSON documents by
creating ourselves an ObjectMapper.
So this is a good introductory entry point into the
JSON API to create the ObjectMapper.
Now,
in order to read a file or parse a file and create
the DOM API via the tree-style API,
we want to use a method on this ObjectMapper called readTree.
Now we can see that readTree comes in a variety of different forms.
We can take a file as an input,
which is useful just for reading files off the local file system.
We've got things like readers and inputStreams that let
us consume content off the network.
If it's already been read into a string or a byte array,
we can take those as input sources.
So I'm actually going to use the tree version here
and read in the BANK_LOAN_FILE.
So our BANK_LOAN_FILE is a file that looks exactly the
same as the previous section's demo.
So it's Mrs Joan Smith.
We read the tree object in from this file, and that gives us a JsonNode object.
So a JsonNode object is a way of representing a
single node within the file hierarchy.
And to begin with,
what I'm just going to do is print this JsonNode back out again.
So that's the first step here.
And we can see it's not pretty printed.
And it's just parsed it and plopped it back out again as JSON.
Just like before, if we want to pretty print those things,
we can grab ourselves an objectWriterWithDefaultPrettyPrinter,
and then we can print out the objectWriter,
and then go writeValue.
There are lots of output sources,
but we're just going to create a string here to
print it out on the command line.
Okay.
And then we get the same stuff,
but pretty printed with nice formatting so we can read it.
Lovely!
The other thing I want to show to you is what happens if we have an
error within the format of the document because sometimes you'll have
inputs to your system that aren't valid JSON.
So I've just removed that quote there so it's not a valid JSON document.
And if we try and rerun this same code, we can see we get a JsonParseException,
which tells us that we've got a problem with our invalid documents.
So this is really, really important to be aware of,
that you get these JsonParseExceptions,
and it's really important to recognize that that's why we
have them because it's an invalid document.
So if I fix that double quotes in the file,
I will also fix that parse exception.
So our next step is to remove these two values.
And what we really want to do is inspect the JsonNode and
have a look at its children because it's really
representing a tree of information.
So if we just explore what we have from our pretty printed version,
that top level object is representing the whole JSON document that we have here.
And then within that, we'll have a bunch of children.
So, for example,
there'll be an element within that JsonNode that represents
the key value pair name and Mrs Joan Smith.
And this will be a textual element.
And then there'll be other elements, for example,
loanDetails to another JsonNode.
And within that,
from say a startDate to another textual element or from an amount to a number.
So there are a bunch of different objects within there.
So what I'm going to do is just iterate over it.
So the first thing I'm going to do is create a little
method here called explore with a jsonNode.
I'm just going to create a little method there.
So in order to explore the jsonNode,
we could just get an iterator of all the elements out there.
We can get an iterator for the fields.
So I'm going to get an iterator out for the fields.
And then have a little loop here that says while fields.
hasNext.
And then get each field out in turn.
So that's using a Map.
Entry object where the key is the fieldName.
And the value is the value within that key value pair in the JSON object.
It's a bit like a map.
Now, when we have that value,
what I'm going to do here is I'm going to just print out the fieldName,
and I'm also going to say explore the value itself.
So if we go through this,
we should see all the field names of everything within that tree printed out,
name, purpoesOfLoan, loanDetails, amount,
startDate, endDate, jobs,
and jobs is an array so it doesn't have the fields within it.
What we want to do here is iterate over these different values,
and we want to do some validations.
So I'm going to rename this explore method to be validateDates.
So what is validateDates going to do?
Well, it's going to take that --- I'll rename that to childNode.
I'm going to say if the childNode.
isTextual and if the childNodes --- and if the name.
endsWith Date, then it must be a date field.
So I'm going to print out Found date field + fieldName.
Then what we want to do is take the childNode and get
its value out as just a string.
So we call the.
asText method on that, and that gets us the fieldValue.
Now if called.
asText on some other type of node, we might still get a string back,
but we wouldn't get the exact string value,
so that's why I checked whether it was a textual node for it to be a date.
Then,
we're going to use the DateTimeFormatter from Java 8 and check
that it matches the ISO_LOCAL_DATE format.
So I'm going to do a quick parse on that fieldValue.
So what this will do, what this method will do is it will throw an exception,
which I'm going to catch with a try-catch block and that exception will
be a DateTimeException if it's not properly formatted.
And so I'm going to say Invalid value + fieldValue.
So that's the first part of our code.
The second part of our code is we need to be able to loop over these fields.
So we need to have a recursive decent of the child just
like we had with the explore method.
So I'm going to say validate the dates on that childNode.
So that will say look, if it's a date node,
it's textual and its name ends in date, we will inspect it.
If not, we'll just recurse down and inspect its children with the same method.
And this will show us that we found a bunch of date fields,
the startDate and endDate field.
Now if we look inside this bank loans document,
we can see startDate and endDate weren't children at the top level object.
They were children of the loanDetails object.
So that's why we were recursing down to go into it.
And just to show that our validation works,
let's just mess up the formatting a little bit of startDate and rerun that code,
and we say invalid value.
Brilliant!
So we found the value,
and there's a little example of how to use the
DOM-style API to iterate over generic code.
So this makes no assumptions about the structure of the document other than
that every field that ends with the string date is a date and just does that
to validate or inspect every date in the document.
So,
a good way of dealing with generically processing arbitrary different types of JSON print files using the DOM API.